If you are all set to depart to your dream destination, following are some advice that might come in handy.

1. FOREX CARD AND CASH TO CARRY:

It'd make some sense to carry lot of money with you on your trip. You can't call up your dad to transfer you cash, like in India, if you're stuck. You're going to run out of cash real soon, considering the initial expenses and rent you've to pay for the first few months. They'd pile up very soon. I'd recommend you to carry $800 in a Forex card and $300 in currency.

2. BAGGAGE AND LIMITS:

Make it pristine clear with your airline regarding how many bags you could carry, exactly. Don't carry 3 bags unless and until you're sure about it. Airlines could charge you $200 for additional bags. Also, weigh your bags properly. They should be within the prescribed weight limits, according to your airlines. Don't wait till you get to the airport. I almost missed my flight because one of my bag's weight limit overshot by 2 kgs. I had to throw away some clothes and essentials and run to the security in a haste. Still gives me the chills when I think about it. 😑 

Most airlines allow a laptop bag and one cabin bag of certain dimensions (confirm with airline website). It's prudent to store your important documents in your cabin bag that can be locked but make sure that it's always in your vicinity. Lost articles could be bought back but lost immigration documents can get you into very tricky situation.

3. DOCUMENTS TO CARRY:

I'd recommend you to carry all your medical prescriptions, marksheets, birth certificates, PAN card, aadhar card, India driving license etc, with you. You might not need them, but it's safe, anyway, to keep them with you. Leave a photocopy of any of your government identity, in all your bags. Its purpose is to prove that you're the owner of the bag in case it gets lost or a dispute arises. Leave 5 copies of photocopy of all your documents at your home, in India.

4. SECURING BAGGAGE:

Tie a ribbon of a unique color to all your bags. Bags could be difficult to identify when you need to retrieve them from carousel, at the airport you arrive. The colored ribbon could save you loads of time, trust me 😛

5. TSA LOCKS AND THE DILEMMA OF NOT HAVING ONE:

It's advisable to purchase bags with TSA locks, if you haven't yet. TSA locks are locks that could be only opened by you or Travel Security Agents at the airport to check the bags for contraband. In case you don't have a TSA lock, it's advisable to leave the bags unlocked. If it's locked, consider that the agents would rip your precious bags apart and tie them with a duct-tape after checking them. You'd have to throw those bags away, upon arrival.

6. ON THE DAY OF THE JOURNEY:

Dress heavily and carry a good quality jacket with you. It could get very cold in the airplane and the blankets they provide render useless. Arrive at the airport early and start with the procedure of check-in three hours prior to your boarding time. International airports have ridiculously long queues. 

7. FOR IN-FLIGHT ENTERTAINMENT:

Carry a paperback of your favorite author, good quality earphones, and an iPod. Yes, you do get in-flight entertainment on airplanes, but it's not a guarantee that it carries through in all your connecting flights. You get monotonous and lose interest pretty easily on trans-atlantic flights which will seem to last for eternity. Drinking plenty of water and walking around will keep blood flowing in your legs. 

Hope it helps. I'd keep you updated with more information. Let me know if you've any doubts.
