Hope you are doing great. I am sharing few tips to purchase the right stuff before heading out to the U.S. These are the things I wish I knew before flying here. 

1.  Cooking utensils:

They should probably be on the top of your priority list. While you can definitely find something similar to that in the U.S., it's often more expensive and difficult to find specific vessels for Indian cooking. Buy spare cooker gaskets in case it gets misplaced.

2.  Clothes:

There's no need to pack your check-in bags with clothes unless and until you have nothing more important to carry. You should be able to find shirts, shorts, and jeans for a very nominal price here (if not cheaper than in India). It would make more sense to carry traditional clothes that you might want to wear during Poojas.

Don't forget to get a custom-tailored suit/pant for interviews/job fairs. They can burn a hole in your pocket if you decide to get them here.

3.  Electronic Appliances:

You can use the laptops and mobile phones that you have had in India. They should work just fine, for the most part. (Bring a universal travel adapter)

While some might argue that you need fancy laptops/phones to survive here, I would recommend that you make do with what you have until you graduate and get a full-time position. There'd be plenty of time to indulge in opulence.

All other electronics that you used to own in India can be brought here and used with a travel adapter without any issues. 

4.  Books:

Books are certainly expensive in the U.S. (both leisure reads and study materials). If you are an avid reader, I would recommend purchasing a kindle for leisure reads or purchasing a bunch of novels that might last you for a year (depending on the space availability in your baggage)

As for study materials, you can ask your seniors what course materials that they would recommend purchasing.

5.  Spectacles:

Prescription glasses are very expensive in the U.S. They can easily run up to $250 without vision insurance. Get your eyesight checked and buy two pair of spectacles. I can't emphasize this enough because I had to struggle without glasses for a couple of weeks as I misplaced them somewhere during a trip. I was driving back from the trip half-blind 

6.  Food Items/Spices:

This is where it gets little tricky. Name-brand spices like Everest/MDH are completely okay to bring. Spices/food articles that are packed without a brand may be subject to scrutiny by custom officials to check for particles that can potentially infest American crops.

I would recommend to pack these items properly and give it a try. If you are lucky, you should be able to get by just fine.

7.  Toiletries/cosmetics:

It doesn't matter whether you purchase them in India or U.S. Yes, certain products could be little less expensive but I honestly don't think that it justifies you to pack your bags with these items.

Certain products that are easily available in India like Patanjali products, Vico Turmeric, Coconut oil etc. can be given more importance than toothpastes or soaps.

8.  Shoes:

Again, it really depends what kind of shoes you are looking for. Dress shoes are cheaper in India but sneakers/loafers etc. are cheaper in the U.S. if you get them on a sale. Honestly, you could just bring whatever you have right now and purchase shoes on need basis here.

On a final note, I would recommend you to not spend a fortune on things that you think "you might need". Tbh, you should be just fine here even if you miss a couple of things. Try to focus more on the studying part for two years without heeding to a lavish lifestyle. Leading a minimalist lifestyle during your MS will keep you from getting distracted. Eventually, it will all pay off when you graduate.

Let me know if you have any more questions pertaining to this. Will try to answer.
