What is your intention for pursuing MS in US? 

Several people are caught in distressing thoughts and agony over applying for MS in US and the heartaches that follow it. Most of you are probably cursing yourself in sheer agony because of your MS plan getting delayed and are just waiting for that one moment when you will fly to your dream school and pursue a magical journey which you will cherish for the rest of your life.

While there's nothing inherently wrong with all this enthusiasm and energy, it'll certainly help to realize where it's coming from and what you would like to do with an MS degree. Let's face it, the degree in itself isn't going to magically turn your life topsy-turvy. You need to attribute specific actionable plan in order to make a good use of the degree and your experience. 

"I want to experience U.S. education system since undergrad in India sucked"

I won't deny that depending upon the school you went to pursue undergrad in India (especially engineering), you might not have had the best experience. But it would be an overstatement to say that Indian education system sheer sucked. Both systems have their pros and cons. While it's much more strenuous and mentally-demanding to graduate form Indian engineering system, I feel like you are acclimated to difficult specializations like aerodynamics, Digital Signal Processing, etc. fairly better in the process as you don't have the opportunity to have an open-book exam or a project grade to save your ass. You need to know the concept in and out to clear the exams (let alone topping the class)

On the flipside, U.S. education system, especially with engineering, is much more lenient and forgiving on core concepts and theories, and more focused on the practical application of those concepts. If you really feel like that's what you want to dive deep and won't bother about getting a job in U.S., then it's much more important to research and pick schools from departments that have renowned labs and professors. You might not find the school with the best rank or the glam in this pursuit and rarely does everything come together as a package in this process. You need to be able to focus on a specialization, department, and courses that will satiate your interest.

"I want to have the best Return on Investment for the money my parents or I spent on the education"

While it's definitely debatable whether or not it's okay to analyze education with a cost/benefit perspective, we can't deny that almost 3/4th of the students bother more about the aftermath of the education more than anything. This is barely surprising as most of us hail from a middle-class family where we risk running our family into debt if we aren't even able to secure a job to at least pay back the bank loan. (This probably doesn't apply to you if your family can sponsor your tuition fee with close to zero liability)

In this case, it definitely makes sense to focus more on a cost-effective public school that is renowned for handing out in-state tuition waivers and scholarships. GA/TA is another option to secure such tuition waivers. As long as you don't get into a blacklisted school, you have just as much probability as another person in a tier 1/tier 2 school in finding a job. So, don't let anyone fool you into thinking that a low-ranking school automatically puts you out of competition when it comes to securing internships or full-time positions. I have had friends who attended Ivy league schools only to end up working through staffing firms and had others who went to piss-poor schools to get into splendid firms like PWC and Intel.

Just make sure that the school is located in a major metropolitan area where it's easier to network and connect with recruiters. 

"I want to immigrate to the U.S. and wish to settle down there one way or the other"

Whether it's the charm of Hollywood movies or the picture that was ingrained in our brain from a young age from our parents, relatives, and friends, it's undeniable that people from all over the world romanticize the fuck out of this country. 

Needless to say, many students dream of settling in the U.S. someday and maybe there are plenty of you with that intention. 

Without any major reform to the green-card processing system for Indians, it's a legal nightmare to obtain citizenship in the U.S. today, especially hailing from India. Right from getting an OPT EAD card, to filing for H1b, getting your petition picked in the lottery, filing for green card, and extending your H1b visa is riddled with shit-ton of paperwork and headache-inducing process. Worrying part is that most companies are reluctant to even go through all this for their employees since it's just easy to find an American citizen (if they can) and have them work for them without all the legal hurdles. 

While it's definitely possible to immigrate here with the patience, resilience, and the support of the sponsoring company, I would like to emphasize that don't come planning to immigrate here. Prepare a plan B to be departed in 3 years in case your H1b visa petition doesn't get picked. This will save a lot of heartache in case things don't work out your way.
