In order to clear any rumours or anxiety surrounding finding employment in the U.S., I wanted to share this. Something to keep in mind while you’re awaiting next steps. I'll try to break this down, to the best of my knowledge, and give my personal opinion as well, to conclude.

Please don't quote me on the exact number of visas applicants and this information. This is just supposed to be a guide, and you need to do your own research to corroborate this information

1) Few months before graduating, you coordinate with your university's international students department to apply for EAD card. This card is your OPT (Optional Practical Training) authorization which is valid for one year from the date you set as your OPT start date. There's a 90 days grace period for you to find a job, effective from the start date in your EAD card, which you had picked                                    

2) The second step is finding a job. While the process in itself isn't that complicated, the recent political drama surrounding "hire American" has certainly done its damage. It is very difficult to convince the recruiter to hire you without a Permanent Residence/citizenship, since they wouldn't want to take the pain of going through all the hurdles to file an H1B visa for an entry level candidate (assuming most MS graduates would be considered for entry level positions) This is assuming you get into normal companies fresh out of college.

If you get into fortune 500 companies like Apple, Google, Tesla, Cummins, or Walmart, they have a dedicated immigration team which will take care of your end-to-end immigration needs from day one. You won't have to do anything differently in order to make them file your petition

3) Considering you're hired for a particular position, there are two possibilities:

a) The employer offered to file an H1B for you, the next year.
b) The employer offered you a position based on your F1 OPT status, without discussing the elephant in the room (Filing your H1B in the future)

4) Now, things get more complicated even before you start working. It is highly recommended that candidates join a work that closely correlates to their specialization in MS. You are obligated to write a short paragraph about how your specialization in MS and present work position are correlated to USCIS(United States Citizenship and Immigration Services) when you report your OPT start. USCIS stores these for future reference when/if you apply for STEM-OPT extension(24 months extension of your OPT, after 12 months of OPT) or your employer files an H1B1 for you. Even if there's a slight discrepancy, they will issue an RFE (Request For Evidence), which can lead to your case denial if proper justification isn't provided to prove the authenticity and intent

5) Depending upon the agreement, your employer can either file your H1B visa or choose not to, beginning April of a fiscal year. The process will start from January itself right from collecting your data. Once your documents are filed, they'll be subjected to a lottery system

6) The H1B cap is 85,000 per year, which simply means that 85,000 candidates will be issued an H1B. Out of this, Masters graduates have a quota of 20,000(advanced degree quota) out of the 85,000 cap. If an MS holder's application is not picked under the advanced degree quota, it will be again put in the general pool of 65,000 cap quota

Note: General quota consists of candidates who were brought to the U.S. onsite from tech companies like Infosys or TCS. Typically MS candidates have an upper edge in the H1b lottery

To give you a glimpse of 2021 H1B petitions:

Total H1B Applications: 275,000
Total US Masters Quota Filings: 126,500 (46% of Total)
Total Regular Quota Category Filings: 148,500 (54% of Total)

7) If your application is picked, you're lucky! Your case will be reviewed by USCIS and unless there's something very shady about your employer or your role, you will be issued an H1B authorization. You can remain employed for 3 more years, and renew it once for 3 more years. Before the end of 6 years, your employer can choose to file for your green card, based on which you can keep renewing your H1B visa as long as you still meet the USCIS requirements.  

If not, your employer can file for the next year, or the year following the next, making it a total of 3 attempts max.

8 ) In case your petition isn't picked for an H1B authorization in these three atempts, you can choose to leave the United States or use some means to stick around in the U.S. (Few of the suggestions I have come across being pursuing a PhD to something as absurd as marrying an American citizen). Resorting to anything that goes against USCIS policy is highly discouraged and can get you barred from entering U.S. permanently

With all the facts in hand, here goes my personal opinion:

I have to agree that the scenario is bleak, at present. The whole process ensuing after graduation is chaotic, at best, until you get an H1B authorization.

Few candidates can also make this a business-case scenario to calculate Return of Investment, considering many have to obtain hefty bank loans to fund their MS program.

With all this being said, my recommendation would be to take one step at a time, without trying to figure out the big picture. Concentrating on the two years of education would be a prudent decision, leaving the future to future. Pursuing MS here in itself is a rewarding experience which has taught me myriad of life-skills. The whole process surrounding MS reeks of uncertainty, but so does life, in general. Only calculated risk-taking has the ability to help you attain the pinnacle of your career.

Hope this helps. If you have any questions regarding this, please feel free to comment. Good luck!
